In this video, we are going to start
learning about vlan. So what is vlan?
And why we need a vlan?
We will learn with an example case. Here let’s
say we have a room. And in this room we have 9 pc.
all of this pc is connected to a switch.
These 9 pc is separated to different division.
These 3 pc is in accounting division,
these 3 pc is in the engineering division, and
last, these 3 pc is in the marketing division.
Usually, each division will
have different services.
Let’s say engineering division need higher
bandwidth than others division.
Or let’s say marketing division is allowed to access social
media like facebook, instagram, or others,
but others division is prohibited
to access social media.
Because each division need
different services like that,
so we will need to configure vlan for each
division. Let’s say for accounting we use vlan 10,
engineering use vlan 20, and marketing use vlan
30. So each division will use different vlan.
And then, each vlan will use different
network or different block subnet.
Let’s say vlan accounting or vlan 10, will
use 192.168.10.0/24, for engineering or vlan
20 will use 192.168.20.0/24, and finally for
marketing or vlan 30 will use 192.168.30.0/24.
If each division using different
vlan and different network like this,
we can easily manage the service.
Here let’s complete the topology. So from
the switch must be connected to a router,
and from router must be
connected to internet like this.
Now let’s say we want to only allow access social
media from marketing division, to do that we can
create a firewall or access list in the router to
allow access to social media from 192.168.30.0/24,
and block access from the others.
Okay, so that is the first
advantage of using vlan.
The second advantage that we can get if
using vlan is separation of broadcast domain.
Let’s say here we have PC 1, and here we have
PC 2. When PC 1 want to send packet to PC 2,
first PC1 will send ARP packet to the switch. This
ARP packet is used to ask the mac address of PC 2.
After switch receive the ARP packet from PC 1,
switch will broadcast the ARP
packet to all pc connected to it.
But because now we already have vlan, so the
ARP packet from PC1 will not sent to other vlan,
but only sent to the computer that is in the
same vlan with PC 1, which is PC 2 and PC 3.
The ARP packet will not sent to
PC in the vlan 10 and vlan 20.
Okay, so this is the second advantage of using
vlan, which is separation of broadcast domain.
Okay I think enough for this video,
I hope you understand what is vlan
and why we need to configure a vlan.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!